Andreas Komninos: So, Neil, I'd like to thank you for taking the time to talk to us this morning.
It's the evening for me,
but it's a little earlier in the day for you.
I was wondering if you can tell
us a little bit about yourself
– where you currently work and what your UX
responsibilities and role are in your current company.
Neil Sittler: Yeah, sure. So, I am working in Boulder, Colorado, and I work in a co-working space.
I work with a software company.
We make a route-finding app for professional
delivery drivers called Road Warrior.
And we are a very small company – there's
just me and two developers, basically.
I was just hired to sort of take care
of what we're calling "customer success".
A.K.: Excellent. So, can you tell us a little bit about your background? What did you major in? What's your training on?
N.S.: So, I studied
graphic design and illustration long ago.
It was a second career. I was a cook and
a fine artist before that.
But I got into graphic design.
And I have been doing design for print and web for about 15 years.
So, I was a very strategic
thinker as a designer,
but I didn't always get to use that strategy.
Creating a magazine was always my favorite project
because I'd have to
think through the pacing of the pages;
I'd have to think through content and
where it might fit strategically.
I had to work with a cross-disciplinary team – the
ad sales folks, the printer,
maybe some production people, hiring writers and
illustrators and art directing them
and even concepting the content. And
all of that I really loved.
But once it was designed, then each issue would just
be sort of grinding out the same thing.
And there was nothing wrong with that, but over the years I felt like there was something missing.
And it wasn't until a couple of years ago that I'd even heard the term "user experience design".
And when I heard about it and started learning about it, it just made sense that it was something I wanted to do.
A.K.: I presume that most of the training that you undertook in UX was under the IDF platform, right?
N.S.: That's true, yes. I would say yes, aside from just being a curious observer.
As a graphic designer, I was never the one to just, you know, say, "I want to make a really cool rock poster"
and just kind of do that.
I always one wanted to know *why*,  *who* my audience was – all of those things.
So, I think I sort of was practicing some of those things and learning all through my career,
but IDF sort of gave vocabulary to it and methodology.
A.K.: Perfect – so, can I ask now that you are obviously successful in building your dream
and becoming an UX professional, do you still actively follow and read the IDF material?
N.S.: I do. I'm signed up for about eight classes that I intend to finish.
A.K.: Okay, that's a lot of training!
N.S.: Yeah, I don't know where I'll find
the time, but I'm going to continue with
classes where I can because it's a goldmine – it's a goldmine of information.
A.K.: Well, as they say, sometimes you learn more
by doing than by actual reading.
So, I imagine you'll have the opportunity
there to put a lot of your skills or a
lot of the things that you kind of read
about into practice and maybe learn a
little bit more by doing things rather
than reading about them.
So, I was wondering if I can ask you
if you can give us a concrete example of
how perhaps you may have used
knowledge from the IDF in your professional practice?
N.S.: Sure – a concrete
example.
So, over the summer I was doing some freelancing and trying to put together situations where I could practice
some of the methods I've been
learning.
I've been sort of in charge of a youth sports
website here in Colorado for probably
about six or seven years, and I inherited
the site from somebody else.
It's got really old code. I don't do a lot of
coding besides HTML and CSS.
But I can make a
WordPress site from scratch.
So, I sort of put together a project where I would
redesign this site, but with *users first*.
A.K.: Okay, perfect – thank you for sharing
that.
Okay, so on to my next question: what would you say is good about being a member of the IDF platform?
N.S.: I would say you learn a ton.
It's great information.
Your eyes are open, and you start to connect dots that you hadn't connected before.
That's one thing.
The study at your own pace is fantastic.
The cost is
ridiculously great.
You can't find an education like this anywhere for the
cost.
But a benefit that I'm just getting into now is *community*.
You know, like this interview.
So, now I know you or am
getting to know you.
And then, last week I had a guy from Madrid who connected with me through some of the comments
in one of the courses. He needed to do
a usability test on his portfolio site.
And so, we had a Skype call last week
that he recorded.
So, we're getting to know each other, and that's pretty cool.
That takes a little effort – you can't just read the class material, answer the questions and then disappear.
But if you make that effort, I find that the community is pretty willing to reciprocate.
And actually, I just remembered
I met a woman here at a local tech meetup whom I'd seen in comments in IDF courses.
So, that was pretty cool, too.
A.K.: So, Neil, my final question to you – what courses would you recommend that
the beginner takes as they make the first steps in the journey towards becoming a UX professional?
N.S.: Sure, I've benefited a lot from Becoming a UX Designer from Scratch.
It kind of gave me a framework of the *world of UX* and what was possible.
So, I really like that one.
And then just anything that looks
interesting – you know,
Design Thinking I think will be a great foundation for anything you want to do in life
and for confidence.
And the User Research class – I think that's a good overview of all the tools.
And I think that's invaluable.
So, I'd say start with those three.
And that's coming from my background as a visual designer.
I didn't really think about doing the user interface kind of course first.
And I
will continue to pursue those.
But the first thing I wanted to do was User Research – what's it all about?
What are the tools? How can I start
implementing those immediately?
So, those three.